From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 67. Recorded live
Monday, May 23rd, 2011. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Telerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
has an off the cuff
conversation with Jeff Atwood. Have
you seen cloudy with a
chance to be balls? Yeah.
I love that movie. Totally
underrated movie. No one appreciated
their movie. Very good movie.
Love that movie. And it's
funny too, because when Henry
sees the part where he
powers up the thing, he
goes science dude, his, his
voiceover work was so good
in that movie. Yeah. I
know. You know, another movie
that just kicked complete ass
in the same vein was
how to train your dragon.
Oh yeah. I mean that
guy's voiceover work was just
on point and thoroughly enjoyable.
Yes, I do. I find
that like, I probably prefer
the wackier movies, like how
to dragon dragons kind of
a serious, but it's good.
Don't get, Oh, it's totally
serious. But I mean, I
hear your point, like the,
the slight chance of meatballs,
like you're watching Kelly with
a chance to meet 12
and you're like, well, I'm
not really sure what kind
of movie this is, you
know? And then like, okay,
well there's some food. Oh,
shit. Food from the sky.
Okay. This is that kind
of movie. It's totally wacky.
There's a, there's all these
little things you don't notice
when you watch 53 times
to like, you know, when
he gets it to rain,
ice cream. Well, there's one
part where it's doing Neapolitan.
Like there's chocolate, vanilla, and
strawberry. And there's like the
one kid in the strawberry.
I'm like, I love strawberry.
And like all the other
kids are in chocolate, vanilla.
Like nobody likes strawberry. It's
on the screen for like
all of five seconds. You
know? I love inside jokes.
I've already seen, I've already
seen Thor twice and I'm
starting to look for, for
stuff like that. I haven't
seen, Oh God, it was
so awesome. It's like Spiderman.
It's like that feeling when
you first saw the original
Spiderman and you were like,
Holy shit, Marvel is making
good movies. Kind of like
a second tier dude, believe
me on paper. This should
not be a good movie.
I get that intellectually. I
understand that Thor should not
be a good movie. When
I heard about it. I'm
like really, really Thor. I
mean, Wolverine, w who's next
Falcon, Aqua man is only
a movie on like fucking
entourage as a dramatic conceit.
It's never actually been a
movie. I mean, you would
just, you would think of
all credibility. Exactly. Of all
of, all of the ones
that they would pick four
would be the last, you
know, it would be like
black Panther and green fucking
a glance turn. And then
maybe I think they haven't
done anything with black Panther.
Haven't they? You should. That'd
be. I watched that. What
about like, we'll put about
Luke cage, like that's what
Nicholas cage took his name
from David. And that there's
so many, I tell ya,
Stanley is going to be
doing this for the rest
of his life. You know
what I mean? He is
just making money, hand over
fist. It's the special effects
that were, that needed to
get to that level before
he could, you know, really
make it happen. But you
don't think the original Batman
wasn't, you know, from the
sixties, wasn't lots of enough
for you. For me, Batman
will always be Michael Keaton.
I don't care what anyone
says. It'll always be, it'll
always be mr. Mom for
me. And then you get
an old enough, he keeps
seeing them reboot. It. It's
like, Oh, they rebooted Batman.
Another guy. I believe they
have the, they rebooted Hawk
within like an 18 month
period. Yeah. But all the
hooks have sucked. I only
Dang the win was awful,
but the, the, the one
with, I mean, any, anything
with Edward Norton is good. I
respect Evernote's and true. That's
true. And Liv, Tyler, we
can't, you know, you can't
go against Liv. Tyler. No.
Yeah, that'd be wrong. But
yeah. I mean, iron man
and can Ironman was casting
and enjoy iron man. Now
I've got to say that
Spiderman. I don't know. It's
so, so inspiring. A lot
of people really liked it.
And also X-Men I thought
the first one was pretty
good. I don't know. I
just, It was great. And
the other two were so
kind of ma that, honestly,
I can't tell them apart
when they're on TV, right?
Like it's almost like Superman
two and three sweater, all
expert and two and three.
It's like, well, which one
is this? You know what
I mean? Like it comes
on TV. There's like certain
movies that come on TV
that are like my Shawshank,
you know? And one of
my Shawshank comes on. That
means it's just like, whatever
movie it is, like golden
child. It's like, Oh shit.
That's must Shawshank. I need
to watch it. You know
what I mean? Like, whatever
you're doing, just because you
happen to go up, up,
up, up, up, and then
you're like, Oh shit, golden
child was on. I've never
actually seen each other. See
any Murphy movie, are you
serious? I haven't seen it.
And just that one good
movie that's went back and
back with the Murphy. You
know, he liked to party
all the time. That was
seriously. I mean, that's a
great, great movie. I was,
I was all ready to
go off and like do
a bunch of like quotes
from it. And now I'm
uncomfortable that I can't like,
I get like, it's all
like, Oh, that's awful From
with golden tail was like,
I couldn't quite get my
head around. Like, what the
hell is it? Like, even
as a kid, like, this
was what, 1984. So I'm
like 14. I was like,
what is this about? Like,
I couldn't, it didn't sell
me on the concept. Like,
okay, there's a golden child.
There's any Murphy. There's what's
happening here. You know? Like
I couldn't quite figure it
out. So I'm all more
than willing to give it
another shot. And you know,
but you know, what we
can, we can talk about
is the last samurai, the,
the, the full body glow,
the samurai. You mean the
last avatar? No, no, no,
no. Do you mean Tom
cruise? No, no, no, no.
This is with what's your
black actors. Oh, wait a
second. Like dynamite, like, okay.
The guy gets the full
body glow, the little, just
the hands that look, first
of all, to Kung Fu
movie with black people that
narrows it down considerably. Hopefully
I believe it's called. And
the guy called the Shogun
of Harlem. Shogun of Harlem.
You seen black dynamite just,
Oh, I love black. And
you're there making a secret.
I'll know the guys on
Twitter and somebody retweeted. And
I actually saw it somehow,
but the main got this
classic man lactide him. It
was brilliant. Everything. Honestly, he's
such an underrated actor, You
know, it's called the last
dragon. It's the 19th. I've
seen that. That's the one.
Isn't that? The one where
like Kareem Abdul Jabbar shows
up. I don't know if
he's in that, but it's
just a classic Katie's movie.
I mean, if, if the
golden child is anywhere near
as good as that, then
you've sold me. The golden
child is just so incredible.
Wait, wait, is it more
quotable than coming to America?
It is equally as quotable.
Okay. The initial quote that
I was going to quote
where I can't even tell
you, because just watch it,
just watch it. It's fun.
I think it's on Netflix
instance. It's it's worth it.
There's a couple of, there's
a hot chicken. It of
indefinite ethnicity. It's a Seriously.
This is Eddie Murphy is
one of those people. Let
me see if I can
find her name. He's one
of these people where he'll
have this girl in the
movie that you've never seen
before. And you'll think to
yourself, there's never been a
hotter chick. She's big things
are happening for this girl.
And then you never see
them again. Right. You know
what I'm saying? That happens
sometimes. Yeah. I mean, he,
he had this girl in
this movie and I don't
think, I think at the
time when like 1986 or
whenever this came out, I
thought to myself, there are
no prettier people than this
particular chick, like the curly
hair chick on a, a
goal of coming to America.
You know, everyone thought she
was hot at the time,
but then you never hear
from her again. Right. And,
and then, so he basically
kills their careers as he
boots their career. Yeah, here
she is. Here she is.
I'm going to check it
out. Oh yeah. This is
the girl. You know, there
was somebody like that. I
looked at recently, she had
died and then I felt
really bad. Yeah. Yeah. I
always feel bad about that.
Like, you're looking for hot
chicks and you're like, Oh,
she was really hot and
she's hot and dead. That's
like kind of disrespectful. It's
like, cause you were hot
and now you're picking up
Eddie Murphy. Cause other than,
you know, Shrek movies, it's
like this kind of curious
would have been doing, but
not a lot. Yeah. It's
unfortunately with big yoga chick,
interesting. Find a good picture.
And also that hat, you
know, Eddie Murphy, the Hattie
wore in that movie didn't
work for me. That totally
does not work for me.
That the hat is like
holding It back. It did
hold me back a little
bit. Didn't like the hat.
That's sad. I know. To
write off, to write out
for a movie because of
the hat. Here we go.
Here's another one. Check this,
check out. This is her.
Oh yeah. She's wait. She's
been, these are some, Hey
DJ. Some of movie. Well,
these are, you know, she
never, never, no nothing ever
happened for her. Hey DJ.
That's the wow. Truly indefinitely
Indian, You know? And she's
from England. Of course. Right.
Well, yeah. It kind of
equates to Indian India stuff
they did From, I say
India. I mean UK. Yeah.
No, no, but I mean,
Oh I guess it does.
Yeah. Well, it's been really
connected. They were part of
the British and that's a
good point. That's a good
point. I mean, I blame
them for the influx of
just hideous Indian programming questions
to with stack overflow. It's
like, why did you teach
them English? Why did you
have to do that? Totally
blame the British empire for
them. We should, we should
plan them. They're believable. Don't
put it in. Don't don't
put that people are quoting
people. I just meant I
tweeted this and he says,
so it's coding horror. So
you've gotten through life that
a single chunky ass as
reference. So you're not going
to get any of these
things. Yeah. My brother Nancy.
Oh God, I am just
falling over. That is classic.
You know, I wrote about
SSDs failing and then Sam,
you know, our program where
we'll show that you already
know Robert, you talked to
him, he had a raid,
zero array, mirrored array of,
of, of SSDs when they
just failed. Well, one of
them is from a failed
Dude. After I, after that
whole discussion of SSTs failing
came out on Twitter a
couple of days ago I
had just updated. I don't
know if you'd heard or
not, but I bought a
sin. Synology NAS. Oh yeah.
Yeah. I linked it in
the show notes, dude. I
actually found them. Oh you
did? Okay. So yeah, so
I bought that one and
I put in eight gigs
and dude I'm I am
just kidding. I probably spent
20 minutes backing shit up
every night, every day now.
Cause I'm so paranoid that
these things are going to
die. Like every time my
computer pauses for more than
three seconds, I'm like, Oh,
here it goes here. Oh,
Nope. Not yet. It is
that, that sudden though. That's
what really shocked. Cause I
I've been dicking around computers
for a long time. Right?
Like I basically am building
my own computer since 1995,
upgraded at least 20 or
30 hard drives just by
the new fastest thing forever.
I have never seen drives,
fail. Physical drives, fail. I
mean, granted, you get lucky,
you get unlucky. I've had
a couple of drivers go
click, click, click. And then
I just swapped them out
before they would never actually
happen. Die. Right. Right. This
is just like you, you
literally wake up one day
and just you're gone. It's
just, there's no warning. There's
no, I was on a
live meeting. I was having
a conversation. It was like
deep, deep into multitasking doing
everything. That's wonderful about SSTs
And then the mouse that's
the right one. The mouse
kept moving and nothing else
did. And then I was
like, Oh, and then the
screen went black. I didn't
even get the, I didn't
even get the respect of
a blue screen. Wow. That's
it. That's it. Yeah. Cool.
Awesome. Love that level. Cause
based on the price you
said spending that's the one,
right? No, no, it looked
really nice, but no I
did. I linked that from
the show notes so magical.
I did the research. I
didn't, you know, I don't
skimp on notes producer. Alex
does some of the show
notes, but he's, he, he
doesn't get okay job, but
he's not like super geeky
like us. So it's hard
for him. Is he like
a Salesmen who does producing
on the side? Nursing? Just
like, I don't know because
Joel always wanted like a
sidekick, like someone just to
help with, there's just a
ton of miscellaneous stuff that
needs to be get done.
He's like his assistant kind
of. Yeah. But you know,
a techies technical to the
extent that, I mean he's
able to get most of
it done, but when it
comes to show notes, I'm
really anal. Okay. They have
to be just right. Oh
really? Like every little thing
we talked about, you know,
like I want people, I
don't know, you know, every
of substance. Yeah, yeah, no,
I understand. I should have
a producer to do that.
Cause I'm always getting people
complaining that I, I always
say in the middle of
the talk. Oh yeah. And
I'll put that in the
show notes. I never do.
Yeah. But I get like,
this is also my concession
to people who don't have
time to listen to podcasts.
You can actually read the
notes and get 50% of
it. You know, you can
get just the meat of
like, here's the links. Here's
the basic concepts of what
we talked about. You can
read more here, you know
what I mean? Otherwise, the
kind of blog posts kind
of pointless, like here's podcast
click. It's like, well that's
useless. Let's just assign post
to audio. Right? How it's
it's very labor intensive though.
I mean, that's one of
the reasons Joel kind of
stopped doing the podcast was,
you know, he had to
do all the editing such
as it is and upload
the file. And it was
a lot of work. So
I'm, I'm happy to have
producer relics help. But I
do like the show with
some certain way. And, and
part of that, the reason
I brought it up was
that when you talked about
the thing, I wouldn't leave
exactly that thing right. In
the show notes because it
was cool. Right? Yeah. That's
all People, dude. I'm getting
an influx of people talking
about like giving quotes to
this show and they're sad
because It was like six,
six different quotes in the
last couple of minutes here.
He doesn't know this one.
Oh, that's so classic. I
did get one slightly cool
geek out. You know, Logitech
sells those keyboards that have
the LCDs on them that
are programmable. Yeah. You seen
those. And they also have
like a, like a keypad,
like it's for gamers or
whatever, but it's just like
a little new kind of
a numeric keypad for gamers
with like a, Oh yeah.
A little it's w a
S D All that stuff.
So I it's a long
story. I won't bore you
the whole details, but I've
been playing with it just,
it was just a for
fun thing. It was, I'll
just get this to play
with it and see what
it's worth. And I gotta
tell this LCDs like awesome.
Like there's Lindsey really good
plugins. Like there's one that
gives you frame rate in
your games, like for automat,
like give me the link.
Well, it's the Logitech
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, Yeah.
I know. Remember that. There's
a bunch of people who
are like, obsessed with that.
Yeah. It's really Neat. And
if you think about, it's
kind of dumb because there's
nothing the LCD does that
you couldn't like have another,
you know, that Lilliput USB
monitor, right? It's like, you
can do the same fucking
shit with that. Or just
like a regular monitor. Right?
Like have a whole monitor
It's dude. I looked at
my iPad today. Literally today
I hooked up my iPad
with display link and I'm
like, okay. So it's a
tiny monitor, you know? And
I also have, what's called
a MIMO, which is a
little USB monitor and it's
like, what's how do you
spell that? M I M
O Am I okay. Monitors.com
here. Okay. Okay. Oh, nice.
So it's like, this is
good. I was looking for
this. Yeah. So I have
one of these. I give
you two, if you want
it. It's garbage. I heard
a little of the Lilliput
a little just by thinking
it gets 99 bucks, which
is actually a good deal.
It's hard to small displays.
I don't think they make
them a capacity anymore. They're
not. Yeah. Put do dude.
Lilla put USB Here. Here
it is. I don't know
how to spell it. Okay.
Well think about it. The
thing that's slightly cool about
it. It's fully USB. I
mean, granted, that means it
doesn't have. Okay. So the
Put USB monitor in the
MIMO are the same thing.
Probably they are literally they
have no touching. No, no,
no. This one doesn't have
touching. It's a little bit
cheaper. I bought mine for
79 bucks back before, like
these things got popular and
it's, it's like 1,024 by
600 or some weird resolution
like that. Yeah. So I
would, don't even think about
it. The problem is I
have a 30 in front
of me and I got
a 24 of my left
on 24. My right, right.
There's literally like nowhere else
reasonable to put this thing.
I know. Well, that's what
I'm struggling with. So it's
like, well, what do, I
mean, I just want more
pixels. Right? I want more
pixels in my face because
any, anything that I'm looking
at, like my wall or
art is not moving things
forward because it's not pixels.
And if it's not pixels,
it's not working for me,
Edward Tufty. Right. So I
put my iPad, looking at
my iPad right now and
I have display link on
it. Like, well, maybe I'll
put my to do list
there. Well, that's why the
LCD on the keyboard is
not as crazy. It says,
it sounds, you know what
I mean? Because it's like
a little accessory. See, I
liked the idea of a,
of a, of an LCD,
like a chronic, like remember
the old crystal, crystal tech
LCDs that used to put
in the five and a
half inch floppy drive. You
remember this? So back when
five and a half inch
floppies, when went away, we
have all these bays in
the front of our computers.
So all of these people
would go and put buttons
and led displays stuff like
crystals and crystal works or
crystal texts. So people would
go off and do that.
And they would then put
the stage, you know, the
speed of their fan and
their temperature and that kind
of stuff. Right. Which is
all interesting. But you know,
of marginal value. It seemed
like a good idea at
the time, but I don't
know. Yeah. Well, I mean,
you're not looking at the
front of your PC. That's
really the problem. Yeah. So
I don't know what I'm
gonna try now is I'm
gonna try using the iPad
to put one note on
it and just have my
cause. It's cause the one
note represents my, my day,
my day stuff, you know?
Yeah. I'm struggling with that
too, because I have three
27 inch water. Yeah. It's
effectively the same thing. So
it's like, why do I,
why, why did you want
this? She just wanted to
see what I mostly just
wanna play with it. But
it turns out like when
I'm gaming, when it's like
actually full screen, I don't
know that there's something to
this because I really do
like a, you know, resource
monitor, which has the most
generic name ever of any
thing that has ever been
created. And this monitors, your
resources, what the fuck does
that mean? Cause I always
like, forget it and you
know, I know performance monitor.
Yeah, No, I used to
have all that stuff. I've
got like the windows seven
network meter. That's the thing
I'm always upset with. It's
like, bam, Well, this can
be pretty brutal for us
too. Like I was just
the stack overflow databases. So
stupidly large. It's just painful.
So I actually put it
in my, I upgraded the
SSD to the, for three,
which is awesome. Highly recommended.
No, they'll fail. Yeah. It's
still awesome. I always assume
they'll fail in a year.
Yeah. Cause it cost $600.
It's $2 a day. Just
drink, you know, drink one
less soda pop. And then
I get the joy of
SST all day long. I
know. So I took my
oldest SD, which is like,
I don't even feel comfortable
selling this to anyone. It's
like, this is a used
SST. This is like a
time bomb. Like this is
like selling someone, a loaded
gun. I was like, I'm
just going to throw it
away. But rather than throw
it away, I was like,
I'm gonna use it as
my sketch drive to put
this deck overflow database on.
So I get some actually
decent performance. Nice. Just loading
that thing in is just
a pretty brutal it's like,
I think it's got a
hundred and we need to
compact it, but it's like
150 gig now or something
just retardedly large. So that's
one of the things that
we we'd like to develop
locally. But sometimes we actually
do want to test against
stack overflow data. So having
an SST is like essential.
Now it's like, you didn't
even attempt the deal with
stack overflow database and you
unicity. Cause it's just, it's
like, literally you want to
crane, it'd be like 15,
just go to lunch really.
You know, and some of
it fits in memory, you
know, some of the indexes
and stuff, like all our
machines have 24 gigs on
the main team, but it's
Growing faster than, than hardware
is getting faster. Sure. We
think our ACE ACE in
the hole is, is that
SSDs are getting so much
better. So by the time
we sort of run out
of memory space right now,
the database server, the primary
data, Mister has 96 gigs,
which is, you know, not
stupidly, it's just expensive, not
stupidly expensive. There's always stupid
expensive. You know, if you
really want to go crazy.
Yeah. We never really want
to go there. But we
think by the time we
can't like memory, can't keep
up with us. Like, you
know, it's too, we'd have
to upgrade to 256 gig
or something. Insane. SSDs are
going to be so good.
And so in large enough
that they can actually support
us and particularly a raid
array. Like if you look
at the Vertex three and
versus the Vertex two and
over the original Vertex, like
they've literally performance really in
the last two years. Yeah.
And they're all indication is
that's probably gonna continue for
a while. Hi, this is
Scott coming to you from
another place in time. Are
you using agile practices to
manage your software development? There's
lots of tools in the
market that manage the steps
of a project, but most
of them focus on individual
roles. Get ready for a
solution that caters for the
success of the whole team.
Guys at Tellerik introduced team
pulse. It's an agile project
management tool. That'll help you
gather ideas, estimate plan, track
progress in a common workspace.
Finally companies, regardless of their
size can use a lightweight
and convenient tool that makes
all the stakeholders work as
a United team. Even if
they're in different countries by
combining intuitive user interface and
the power server light team
poles removes the roadblocks that
you typically face and applying
agile in an effective manner,
no more lost data, no
disparate systems, no lack of
critical analytics regarding the health
and philosophy project. See if
yourself get a free copy
for five users in one
project at tellerik.com/team pulse. And
please do thank Tellerik for
supporting Hanselman it's on their
Facebook fan page, facebook.com/t L
E R I K Coloring.
We do appreciate There wouldn't
be a Hansel minutes if
there wasn't, Tellerik helping us.
So we're basically running on
ramdisks at this point, we
can call them SSTs or
flash or whatever, but they
are, I mean, there's a
bunch of bandwidth considerations cause
set a set of two
and set a three set.
A three is set at
two is already the bottleneck
for newer SSDs. Well, yeah,
I've got a, What do
I have in this one?
I have a crucial see
300. And when I run
it at a, on this,
my main machine, the one
that I call the ultimate
coding, horror, ultimate developer machine
part two, I get 7.8.
So I have like all
seven nines and a seven,
eight on the drive. But
when I have it, that's
what I have to let
me see. Yeah. But when
I have it plugged in
to the sat, a three,
Ah, see, now look at
this, I'm down to 7.7
because my SSD is starting
to just kind of, Yeah.
I have 7.8 on my
disc as well. I think
you're just limited. We're literally
limited by the interface. I
got the six gigabit, you
know, thing, you need like
a special Cable and everything,
but I found it to
be unreliable like, like, Oh
yeah, no, it's gotta be
native. Like you need this
new bridge. No, no. Yeah.
It's not the thing is
I made the mistake of
Putting together this coding horror
PC, literally like two months
before Sandy bridge Kelly like
hit it. So the sad
part is I put all
this money into this machine
and it probably would be
30% faster if I had
just waited a few months.
Yeah. Sandy bridge is nice.
Well, you got to wait
the, the, the true high
end stuff isn't coming out
until like fourth quarter of
this year. And there'll be,
there'll be quad channel. Oh.
So that'll be nice. Cause
I don't wanna, I don't
like, like I bought that
This fancy motherboard that has
all this like Intel, Intel
chip sets, weren't ready. So
we did it ourselves, you
know? And it's just like,
you know, I don't want
to install some random guy.
Is you a USB three
driver? No, just I want
to wait until it's native
and it's built in. Yes,
no, totally. That's the correct
way to look at it.
Unfortunately, you know, the really
Sandy bridge is so good.
It makes the high end
stuff. It's basically equal to
all the high end stuff.
Like if you bought a
really high end core,
like the six core, whatever
the like three or $400
Sandy bridge will easily equal
that. Right? Oh yeah. Without
a doubt, but it's not
going to do better. So
if you want to do
better for the super high
end stuff for another six
months, wait, but quad channel,
which, which is exciting because
that means if there's eight
memory slots, you know, do
the math, it's like eight
times four. That's 30 to
get. Right. So what is
your, what is your What's
what's your WEEI now? It
is, I think I'm some
0.3. I'm limited by CPU
or yeah, no, seven three.
What the hell? It's it's
live video limited. Surprisingly, I
have the, the 57 90.
Oh dude. So it would
be 7.5. We limited by
video and then CPU, then
memory than this, Check this
out, speaking. I'm actually right
now I'm on all seven
nines and a seven seven.
And that's the weird part
though. The part that I
can't trust is every once
in a while, I'll be
all seven, eight, seven, seven,
seven. So WEEI, when you're,
when you're up On the,
on the edge, who knows,
you know what I mean?
It's all food and magic,
right. But here's a, here's
a funny story. So I
went and I bought a
GTX 47, a four
70 rather. So Nvidia GTX
four 70, which at the
time was like the, the
Nvidia card. That was the
best price performance. Right. And,
but, but, but people warn
me about the heat, You
know, blah, blah, blah, the
heat. I don't really care.
So I, I just, whatever,
I don't do the heat.
I don't care. Well, you
should care about No, I
know. So, so, so it
turns out, so it turns
out in fact that If
you have a, And in
this monitor, this will do
to this device, We'll do
two 30 inches. So it's,
it's dual DVI Both. So
I could run two thirties
on this thing, but if
you're running two monitors of
different sizes, that means that
like somehow some clock rate
is different. So if the
clock rate is different between
the two monitors you plug
in, then there's a bug
The thing and it doubles
the heat really. Like this
is like a known as
a hard word. Yeah. And
so it was all over
a non-tech it's like a
known. Understood. Thanks. Well, there's
a reason, like if you
read video card reviews, just
go to some hardware site
and read the video card
reviews and just look at
the size of the freaking
coolers that they put on
those cards. They are freaking
ginormous for a reason because
these things are generating like
150 times at the very
high end. That's a scary,
scary amount of heat. And
that's just the nature of
the beast at the high
end. If you buy the
sort of the, the new,
you know, consumer grade cards,
they're much more frugal and
they don't burn that much
wattage. But if you want
to be on the bleeding
edge of like maximum performance,
that's just the status quo.
Well, I mean, I know
that It was stupid of
me because I'm never going
to go and play crisis
two on this machine. But
the reason that I went
like that to buy the
big $400 card was that
I had been running the
30 inch on a budget
card. And I just had
a sense as I would
like minimize stuff or move
windows around that I was,
I was, I was losing
frames and it sounds like
it sounds very selfish and
very much like this is
such a first world problem.
You know what I mean?
Like what do they call
that a white wine that
my video card is dropping
two frames every few seconds,
but it was irritating. It
was like, it's one of
those things that once you've
seen it, you couldn't unsee
it. And I just pissed
me off and it was
worth spending an extra hundred
bucks and another four degrees
Celsius to, to fix it
because man, I don't not
even think about this video
card. It, everything it does.
It does fast. Interestingly, the
bad stuff happens as you
move between two video cards,
right? Like if you're playing
like some high Def video
and then you move it
between two video cards, right.
That's just everything falls apart
at that point. Well, that's
why That's one reason. I
like the ATI stuff, even
though it is a little
faster, it's like a game
of chase. Sometimes one's a
heads and the other is
mine, but you do get
three displays on a single
card. So like I have
no issues with three monitors
that I have dragging, you
know, fully high Def video
from monitor to monitor. Exactly.
I kind of wish Nvidia
would adopt this three monitors
per card thing. But for
some reason they haven't done
that. I think there's a,
I thought that Pete Brown
bought a, a four monitor
card recently You can get
more obscure cards that actually
support a lot of displays,
but they tend to be
like really expensive, like CAD
cam type stuff. Yeah. Yeah.
The only ones that I
know of that are really
mainstream is just the HCI
stuff. Cause they support three.
What they call affinity. It's
also cool because for gaming,
since it is one card,
you can have a full
size video frame across all
three monitors like it. Yeah.
See, that would be nice.
But see sometimes like I've
bought cards like that before,
like not real affinity, but
like right before they started
doing that and it ends
up being like two DVRs
and an HTMI, you know,
where they, where they kind
of wimp out on that
third on that third connector.
Yeah. I mean I'm running
three 27, so they're not,
you know, 25, whatever, what
is it? 30 inch, one
or 25 60 bucks number.
I love my 30. Oh
my goodness. It's 25. 60
by 1600. Yeah. This isn't
quite that high risk. So
I don't know if it
wouldn't, you'd have to obviously
do some research to figure
that out. But yeah, I
got a lot of first
world problems, you know, we
do awful hardware, but terrible.
I don't know if I
can go on after this
really. I think this is
it it's over half. I,
I feel like I should
go and become a hipster
and like get like on
a Mac book air and
just hang out at 15
inch, you know, the 15
inch MacBook air, Just reject
all technology. Just switch to
iPad. Let me see. I'm
looking at my, my Lenovo,
my main lab Top and
it is 1920 by 1200.
Right? That's so 1900 by
1200. That's the Rose. Wow.
That's high rise. Yeah. And
it's nice at this point,
let's see about a 15
and a half inch. So
it's really, really high. Hi
DPI. So I started looking
at this, this new Sandy
bridge, a Lenovo laptop. I
think it's the w five
20 and it's just beautiful.
It's amazing. It's like twice
as fast as this laptop,
But the resolution of the
screen is, is low. It's
like once you've been at
1900, 1920 or something like
that, you know, and you're
like really can do tool
two full pages of texts
side by side. Then it's
really hard to go back.
So yeah, it is. There's
a first world problem. High
Rez displays are kind of
rare on laptops. So if
that's something you want, you
gotta be careful. Cause I
don't think Apple even really
does that. Do they super
high red? They don't, they
don't. And, and speaking of
super, do you have an
iPad or nine? I have
the iPhone four. So I
have an iPad and iPad
too. And it's So frustrating
to me that I've got
the retina display, right? Oh
yeah. It ruins you. And
then I go to the
iPad and I don't tell
you when the iPad came
out, I looked at it.
I was like, okay, these
pixels are like bigger as,
as big as my head.
That was like, even before
I had seen an iPhone
four, I was unhappy. Once
I saw the iPhone four,
I was like, okay, I
can't, I can't touch an
iPad. No, it's awful. That's
awful. It ruins you. Cause
high Rez is awesome. Like
I'm with you on that.
I think the advantage that
Apple has is with iOS
and stuff, as they can
design almost from the beginning,
if your iOS is what
like three years old, four
years old, something like that.
This is like, go back
to windows timeframe. This would
be like windows one, two,
three. Yeah. That's a while
back. You're still in the
part of the process where
you can sort of redefine
everything. So they aren't locked
into all this resolution crap
that even , you know,
on the Mac has doesn't
do resolution independence very well.
Well, you know why, you
know, I finally figured this
out. I started digging into
like how this stuff works.
Cause you want to understand,
you know, the, the underneath
it turns out that like
always 10 is basically it's
like held together with just
transparent PNGs. Like everything is
a PNG, all of it,
everything, every button, every wounded
corner, everything that's pretty on
an iPad or an iPhone
is a, is a PNG.
That's transparent. That's in a
zip file somewhere. And the,
the reason that windows never,
ever could do that is
we have that ability to
go use large fonts, remember
like the whole large font
crisis of the late nineties.
Right. And that was right
before the national news right
before the ninth 98 cookie
panic. Yes. You have cookies
enabled. You remember that everyone
was freaking out. Although every
time I spoke, I spent
most of the late nineties
explaining to my boss that
cookies were not going to
kill his family. Do I
have to try? I need
to, I should disable cookies.
Right? It's like the JavaScript
panics of the two thousands.
Right? Exactly. Exactly. It's a
tricky problem. And I think,
you know, it's funny too,
because Steve jobs was at
next for so long and
next, as I recall, I
had like display postscript, which
is, you know, the, the,
the Holy grail of like
resizable UIs. Right. Is it
not, I don't know a
ton about displaced postscript, but
it's postscript. I mean, designed
for print. Right. Presumably, so
like we've gone from that,
which was kind of the
future to like, and I
guess the web is kind
of scalable. I mean, it's
more scalable, You know,
is supposed to be kind
of scalable. Remember how everyone
got all in a twist
because they decided to make
texts look really pretty and
not be pixel dependent. Right.
And now Firefox is doing
it and it was like,
it's blurry. Yeah. You know,
I've kind of gotten over
that a little bit. I
was really bitter about that.
Yeah. I don't know. Well,
it's funny. I always hear
people like I have a
horrible headache, you know what
I mean? I have a
medical condition that prevents me
from using anti-elitist fonts. Yeah.
It's you know, you know,
what I've decided is, cause
I wrote about this a
long time ago when Joel
had mentioned something about how
Mac font rendering was different.
Safari came out for the
PC, remember, and it actually
offered that font rendering mode.
So I was able to
sort of experience it firsthand
and neither one is really
wrong, you know? And I
think font rendering is one
of the things where like
once you get used to
seeing it a certain way,
that's what you expect. Yes.
I do think they have
to be clear. I do
have a position on this.
My position is on, on
low DPI displays. It is
better to do it the
way Microsoft does it without
a doubt. Well, high DPI
display. It doesn't matter. Well,
no, no, no. It does
matter on high DPA displays.
It's better to do it
the way Apple does it.
Cause it's, it gives you
perfect font fidelity. Like you
don't compromise on the, I
see what you're saying. So
you basically, Microsoft solved the
font issue with software and
Apple solved it with hardware,
specifically high DPI displays Kind
of, I mean kind of,
but I think the Microsoft
approach is wrong and high
DPI. And I would also
say the Apple approaches were
wrong at low DPI. It's
interesting that you say that
because I think it's so
funny as I, as I
do a lot of flying
around and traveling, I see
old men reading on their
iPads and Jack the phone
up. Sure. Yeah. And they
have these giant fonts. Right.
And I think that it
is kind of silly of
them and I'm always using,
and I don't read on
my iPad. Right. And I
don't want to back lit
poor font, rendering kind of
thing. Shining in my eyes.
I use a Kindle cause
it's basically paper. And I
always think it's so funny
that, that they, they, they
Jack the font up like
that. I really liked the
Kindle. I was so impressed.
Like I had never seen
it used every day. I
had never seen the ink,
but man, I was so
impressed with that. I mean,
obviously it sucks for non
reading for reading. It's like,
wow, I really get it.
And the other thing that's
cool about the Kindle. It's
cool because you can't do
anything else with it because
when you sit down with
the Kindle, you're not going
to go play frigging, any
birds, angry birds. You're not
going to go, Oh, I'll
see, what's on tech meme
right now. You know, you
can't do that crap. Like
you're forced to focus and
say, look, I'm going to
read a book. Like this
is a book reading advice.
I'm going to read a
whole bunch of writing. Right.
Which is awesome. Like as
a writer, you should be
excited about this. Like wow.
A device that gets people
to sit down and read
without like click, click, click,
click, click, click clicking as
fast as they can. Yeah.
Yeah. You know, it's funny.
Everyone's like, Oh, it's so
great. That task switching and
multitasking came back to the
iPad and I'm like, Oh
no. Now I can do
other things and be distracted.
You know, double clicking is
all it takes. Yeah. And
you know, it's, it's ironic
because one of my first
reactions life, one was like,
this is going to kill
Nintendo. Like I was like,
I've spent, I haven't known
that many Nintendo devices, but
I have owned like a
game boy advance and a
few other things. And that
stuff is pricey. And I
was noticing like on the
iPhone, like I have games
for free that are like
full commercial games that are
just free. You know, they
have this periods of giving
things or just like a
dollar or something like for
a cup of coffee, I
can get a game that's
going to give me about
the same enjoyment, say a
few hours, whatever. Cause I
don't have, I guess if
you're a kid you have
infinite times you could play
for hours and hours. But
as you get older, you
know, a couple hours is
good. Right. I'm done well.
Yeah. I don't have the
patience anymore. Yeah. And man,
I mean, there's more games
for like a tiny bit.
Well dude, I'm playing. Have
you played on my iPad?
I'm looking at my iPad.
I actually have like the
kids' games. And then I
have daddy's games like are
in like a little corner
of the thing. Cause I've
been relegated to the corner
and I've got the splinter
cell dead space, like dead
space. HD is as good
as anything. You'd get on
it. Like a PlayStation two.
I've heard good things. I
like dead space. I played
the first dead space and
I enjoyed it. Dead space
on an I phone would
be hard just because it's
so tiny, but on the
iPad, it's really amazing. And
now there's a thing called
order and chaos. It's basically
world of Warcraft for eyes,
for iPad. Oh yeah. That's
my game loft is yeah,
Yeah. Yeah. I mean the
graphics, you know, you, you
know that it's iPad and
I pad to me cause
the graphics are, you know,
at their PlayStation to ask.
Right. But presumably they'll, they'll
get that figured out at
some point, I mean dramatically
better. It's just, they're waiting
for the adoption to catch
up. Actually, the part that
I didn't get to finish
last time, a minute ago
when I was mentioning was
that I don't like that.
If I take a retina
display application from my iPhone
four and I put it
on my iPad, it's not
retina display, even though there's
enough pixels for it to
be, they make, they make
a small resolution, like an
iPad, like an iPhone three.
And then they doubled the
pixel double it. Oh really?
Yeah. Even if there's an
iPhone four mode, It ignores
it. Wow. Yeah. It's really
an awful. Do you remember
back in the day when
you do that because they're
idiots and they don't want
you to, I don't know.
They don't, they don't want
to do it. It's awful
because you wouldn't need to
write an iPad application then.
Right. You wouldn't write an
iPad custom app. You would
write Right. Be lazy. I
go, no, no, it looks
great. See, I did it
for retina. It's only like
a, like a hundred pixels
off. Right. It's like night
it's like, was it like
nine 60 by something, right?
Yeah. Yeah. So it's laziness.
But it reminds me of
the time when the Palm
pilot, if you don't know,
if you remember this, remember
when Palm pilots were one
60 by one 60. Yes.
That was the resolution. Right.
And I wrote up my,
my diabetes application for it
and then Palm four came
out or pump three and
then it was like three
20 by three 20. What
are we going to do?
Oh, pixel double everything. Right?
So then you had blurry,
you had blurry pixel doubled
applications and you had, you
know, high res applications. And
then it was the exact
same thing. And I mean,
I'm not, I'm not in
any way trying to take
away from like, from what
these guys have done, like
iPad and I, but it's
like, man, some of these
20 year olds just don't
remember it, man. I was
rocking the pit, the Palm
pilot, you know what I
mean? I was living the
tablet dream. I felt like
I was Wesley crusher on,
on my Palm five. You
know, these kids weren't born
when the Paul five came
out, I'm talking about, I'm
like I'm turning into such
a get off my lawn
guy. Well, what was I
thinking about just the other
day of something else that
where, Oh, this concept of
buying a CD, like I
think is so dead now,
you know, like this idea
of like, you'd have some
physical, you'd go to a
store to buy a silver
disk. That's your music? Like,
how inconvenient is that? Right?
Like who does this anymore?
And like, like, you know,
Henry and you're, you're, you're
my son and, and your
son, like, they're not gonna,
I mean, this will be
a totally alien concept to
them. It'll be like showing
them like, you know, I
don't know a horse and
carriage or something. Exactly. Exactly.
I mean, it hasn't really
been that long. That's the
crazy thing, you know, or
even modems, like who, who
remembers modems now? I mean,
there's kids now that, Oh
yeah. Twitter. I made a
joke on Twitter yesterday. I
was like, you know, Oh
no, no carrier, no responses.
That was comedy gold. And
no one said a word
and I was just like,
Oh man, really? Are we
all 12 wrong with you?
People it's awful. Oh, Hey.
So two questions. One, we
just talked for half an
hour about awesome stuff. I
think this is a Hansel
minutes. So I'll just save
this and bleep out the
swear words. And that's a
show. Okay, fine. Okay. To,
I wanted to talk to
you like literally five, 10
minutes about the, the whole
crash, the great crash of,
of stack overflow, because we
wanted more kind of grubby
tasks specifically because Sam had
a particular moment that he
described that we just thought
was too amazing, but you
weren't there to make the
decisions. So he had to
make it on his own.
So I wanted to paint
that picture and then get
to this a little bit
audio from you. Cool. Okay.
So I want to hang
up on you save this
audio, call you, right? .